= Interactive Programming
:experimental:

== Overview

Traditional programming languages and development environments often
use a http://wiki.c2.com/?EditCompileLinkRun[Edit, Compile, Run
Cycle]. In this environment,
the programmer modifies the code, compiles it, and then runs it to see
if it does what she wants. The program is then terminated, and the
programmer goes back to editing the program further. This cycle is
repeated over and over until the program behavior conforms to what the
programmer desires. While modern IDEs have optimized this process to
be quick and relatively painless, it's still a slow way to work.

Clojure and CIDER offer a better way to work called _interactive
programming_. Indeed, this idea is at the very heart of CIDER.

Using CIDER's interactive programming environment, a programmer works
in a very dynamic and incremental manner. Instead of repeatedly
editing, compiling, and restarting an application, the programmer
starts the application once and then adds and updates individual
Clojure definitions as the program continues to run. Using the CIDER
REPL, the programmer can access the value of different definitions and
invoke program functions with test data, immediately seeing the
result. This methodology is far more efficient than the typical Edit,
Compile, and Run Cycle because the program continues to run and keeps
its state intact while the programmer interacts with it. Indeed, some
Clojure programmers have been known to keep a CIDER session running
for weeks or even months as they continue to write code.

CIDER's interactive programming environment is partially implemented
using an Emacs minor mode called `cider-mode`. `cider-mode`
complements `clojure-mode` and allows you to evaluate Clojure code
from your source file buffers and send it directly to your running
program through the CIDER REPL. Using the functions offered by
`cider-mode` will improve your productivity and make you a more
efficient Clojure programmer.
